Docs: Initial docs for State timeline visualization (#35046)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels/visualizations/state-timeline.md

+++
title = "State timeline"

> description = "Stat timeline visualization docs"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description = "Stat timeline visualization"
```

keywords = ["grafana", "docs", "state timeline", "panel"]
weight = 900
+++

# State timeline visualization

> This visualization excel at showing discrete state changes over time. Each field or series is rendered as it's own unique horizontal band. State regions can either be rendered with values or without. This panel works great with string or boolean states but can also be used with time series. When used with time series the thresholds are used to turn the numerical values into discrete state regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The state timeline visualization shows discrete state changes over time. Each field or series is rendered as its unique horizontal band. State regions can either be rendered with or without values. This panel works well with string or boolean states but can also be used with time series. When used with time series, the thresholds are used to turn the numerical values into discrete state regions.
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v8/state_timeline_strings.png" max-width="1025px" caption="state timeline with string states" >}}

## Shared options

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following shared options are available:

```

- [Standard options]({{< relref "../standard-options.md" >}}) (Unit, min, max, decimals, color)
- [Thresholds]({{< relref "../thresholds.md" >}})
- [Value mappings]({{< relref "../value-mappings.md" >}})

You can also use [field overrides]({{< relref "../field-overrides.md" >}}) to specify options per field or series.

> ## Display options

Reviewer 2: Please match the formatting of other visualization option topics, particularly more recent ones like Time series, where we use headings and text rather than tables. Also, images to illustrate the options are very helpful for users.

Author: @oddlittlebird like this?

![Screenshot from 2021-06-01 16-52-01](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10999/120344293-c0124480-c2f9-11eb-8bb1-fb0089745c16.png)

does not feel great. I do no thinking images for each option is needed as they are pretty self-explanatory and adding images would just make the article a lot harder to scan and find the info you're looking for. But I can make each option a h3 heading. this table was layout was just a test, I think it made it a lot easier get an overview of the options.  But has it's drawbacks.

Author: pushed new headings based layout instead where each option has it's own heading

| Name           | Description                                                                                             |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `Show values`  | Controls whether values are rendered inside the state regions. Auto will render values if there is room |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Show values`  | Controls whether values are rendered inside the state regions. Auto will render values if there. is room |
```

Reviewer: Fixed my own typo.

| `Align values` | Controls value alignment inside state regions.                                                            |

> | `Row height`   | Controls how much space between rows there are. 1 = no space = 0.5 = 50% space                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Row height`   | Controls how much space between rows there are. For example, 1 equals no space, while 0.5 equals 50% space.                          |
```

> | `Line width`   | Controls line width of state regions                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Line width`   | Controls line width of state regions.                                                         |
```

> | `Fill opacity` | Controls the opacity of state regions                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Fill opacity` | Controls the opacity of state regions.                                                         |
```

## Value mappings

> To assign colors to boolean or string values use the [Value mappings](< {{ refref "../value-mappings.md"}} >).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To assign colors to boolean or string values, use the [Value mappings](< {{ refref "../value-mappings.md"}} >).
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v8/value_mappings_side_editor.png" max-width="300px" caption="Value mappings side editor" >}}

> ## Time series + thresholds

Reviewer 2: I recommend a different title for this heading. It could cause confusion with the Time series visualization.

> The panel can be used to great effect with time series as well. In this scenario the thresholds will be used to turn the time series into discrete colored state regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The panel can be used to great effect with time series as well. In this scenario the thresholds will be used to turn the time series into discrete colored state regions.
```
```suggestion
The panel can be with time series data as well. In this case, the thresholds are used to turn the time series into discrete colored state regions.
```

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/v8/state_timeline_time_series.png" max-width="1025px" caption="state timeline with time series" >}}

> ## Legend options

Reviewer 2: @torkelo, is this true for the legend on all panels using the common legend or just this one? If all, then we should update the legend topic and link to it rather than put the info here.

Author: This is a specific legend behavior for this panel.

> When the legend is enabled it can can show either the value mappings or the threshold brackets. To show the value mappings in the legend it's important that the `Color scheme` option under [Standard options]({{< relref "../standard-options.md" >}}) is set to `Single color` or `Classic palette`. To see the threshold brackets in the legend set the `Color scheme` to `From thresholds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the legend option is enabled it can show either the value mappings or the threshold brackets. To show the value mappings in the legend, it's important that the `Color scheme` option under [Standard options]({{< relref "../standard-options.md" >}}) is set to `Single color` or `Classic palette`. To see the threshold brackets in the legend set the `Color scheme` to `From thresholds`.
```
